Hey, it's Rachel. So, we are working on
another special bonus episode for
subscribers where we take you behind the
scenes here at the New York Times. So
far, we've talked to editors who make
the game section. We've talked to
composers who make our amazing music
here at the Daily. And most recently, we
talked to our new restaurant critics.
And for this next bonus episode, we want
to learn about a section of the paper
that people don't talk about quite as
much. It's been around since 1851. And
of all the desks of the New York Times,
it might be the most mysterious.
That's right. We want to learn about
obituaries.
And that's where you come in. If you've
ever had a question about an obituary,
like how does the paper decide who gets
one? Or how do they get written so fast?
Or maybe who wants to write obituaries
for their job? We want to get answers
for you. So send us your questions
either voice memos or just a plain old
email to daily subscribers@ny times.com.
Okay, that's it for the announcement.
Here's today's episode from the New York
Times. [music] I'm Rachel Abrams and
this is the daily.
Since Trump [music] took office in
January, his administration has
torpedoed much of the Biden era efforts
to combat [music] climate change,
slowing the growth of renewable energy
and promoting the expansion of oil and
gas. And for the first time in 30 years,
the annual UN conference on climate
change [music] known as COP is taking
place without representation from the
United States. In its place, China has
become the top dog at the conference and
it's [music] poised to become the world
supplier of green energy technology.
Today, [music]
my colleagues David Galis and Brad
Plumer explain the growing showdown
between global superpowers over the
future of [music] energy.
It's Tuesday, November 18th.
[music]
David.
>> Hi.
>> You just got back from COP.
>> I did.
>> 27 hours to get there.
>> Yeah. I was only 14 to get back.
>> Wow. Okay. Well, you've this is not your
first time being a cop and maybe it's
the longest trip you've taken.
>> Definitely.
>> And in fact, you've been multiple times.
So, I'm curious just to start, tell us
what, if anything was different about
this time.
>> Well, COP is this giant United Nations
climate summit that happens every year
in a different city around the globe.
And what does it stand for?
>> The conference of the parties. And the
parties are those countries that have
signed up in this framework to address
climate change.
>> Got it.
>> And this year it was in Belm, Brazil,
which is a relatively small, relatively
impoverished city on the edge of the
Amazon rainforest. And so even at the
outset, people understood there were
going to be a lot of logistical
challenges with this cop. And that all
came true. People were sleeping on
cruise ships. Wait, cruise ships instead
of hotels or something? Why cruise
ships?
>> Because there like literally aren't
enough hotel rooms in the city to
accommodate an influx of nearly 100,000
people.
>> Wow.
>> Traffic was a mess. There was rain
coming in through the convention center
tent.
>> Oh dear.
>> But the other thing that was new, the
big change since I've been attending
cops was that for the first time, the
United States government was simply
absent.
>> [music]
>> There was no one from the federal
government attending this event.
>> Not one person.
>> I mean, there must have been Americans
there, but you're saying not in an
official capacity representing the
United States.
>> Correct. The point of this event is to
get all the countries of the world
around the same table to [music] address
climate change and figure out how we as
a global community are [music] going to
reduce global warming, put an end to
this. But the United States, which is
the world's largest economy and one of
the biggest emitters in the world of
planet warming gases, was simply MIA.
[music] The Trump administration sent no
one.
>> What was the practical effect of the
United States not being there?
Well, on the one hand, it meant that
whatever agreements might come out of
this COP, and we still don't know
exactly what that's going to be,
>> almost certainly won't be embraced by
the United States. But that's not a
surprise because on his first day in
office this year, President Trump
withdrew the United States from the
Paris Climate Agreement. That was this
agreement signed by almost every nation
on earth including the United States 10
years ago to try to limit global
warming.
>> Right?
>> So the United States is just not going
to be a part of whatever agreements come
out of this.
>> The other big and very visible change
this year was that instead of the US
sucking up a lot of the oxygen as it
often does at these events,
>> China was the center of attention. And
that's representative of a much bigger
trend, which is that as the United
States re-mbbraces fossil fuels like
coal and oil and gas, China is stepping
up and filling the void left by the
United States when it comes to renewable
energy. We've been writing all year
about how China has become the leading
producer of solar panels, electric
vehicles, batteries, and other renewable
technologies. And what I saw very
visibly in Brazil is that other
countries are literally lining up to do
deals with the Chinese because they want
these technologies.
>> What does that mean? Like you saw other
countries lining up to do deals with
them at Cobb. Like that was on display.
What exactly did you see and what were
they actually trying to get?
>> So there's so much happening at this
event, but at the sort of the beating
heart of it is called the blue zone. And
inside the blue zone, it's basically
like a trade show
>> with every country on earth having their
own little booth
>> except the China booth was very big and
it was right in the center of things.
And so if you will picture in this sea
of trade shows with like Thailand and
Indonesia and Brazil all represented,
the biggest space is occupied by China
and there are Chinese flags and there
are pictures of President Xi and they're
handing out his books and handing out
Chinese souvenirs and there was so much
demand most of the day that there were
literally lines of people waiting to get
in and hear what the Chinese had to
today and a lot of what they were
talking about was their renewable energy
policies
>> which is really interesting because
China is I believe the biggest poller on
earth is it is right so
>> obviously there's been a push for China
to get into renewable energy for years
now that's not new but it does seem
striking that China would nonetheless be
the popular kid at a climate conference
right did that seem interesting at all
to you
>> it's a total paradox but this is the
world we're living in right now on the
one hand yes you're absolutely right
China remains the biggest poller on
Earth when it comes to planet warming
emissions. And a lot of that comes from
their continued use at a massive scale
of coal. They're still building new coal
plants,
>> right?
>> And yet what they have also done in
recent years is ramp up to an
unfathomable degree their adoption of
solar panels and wind energy in
particular. And if you look at these
charts, which we write all these stories
about, what they show is this graph that
just goes up and to the right like a
hockey stick when it shows China's own
domestic renewable energy production.
And that's fast on pace to start to
meaningfully displace coal. But the
other side of the story is that they're
exporting these technologies to the rest
of the world. I want to understand more
about the technology that is attracting
these countries that want technology
from China. You mentioned solar power,
wind. What else are we talking about
specifically?
>> Sure. So, I want to be clear, people
aren't like lining up and buying a
ticket and then walking out with a
>> with a solar panel.
>> With the solar panel.
>> No, no, I think or with a $50 million
commitment to buy solar panels. Some of
those deals are happening on the
sidelines. But what we're seeing here is
the world being really interested,
really hungry to understand China's
position, its technology, and how it has
managed to put itself on a trajectory to
go from a massive poller to a clean
energy leader. So that's what people are
lining up to understand and the way
they've done that and the technologies
that other people are trying to get
their head around and maybe their hands
on. M you named a couple of them. Solar
panels absolutely most of the world's
solar panels are made in China right now
and they are by far the biggest exporter
of solar panels. Same is true in many
ways for wind. China is building tons of
wind power and they're helping other
countries build wind farms as well. But
it doesn't end there. It's batteries.
>> It's transmission. I'm actually working
on a story right now about how China has
helped build in Brazil these
multi-,000mi
lines that carry energy across the
Amazon rainforest to the population
centers. So, China's a leader in
transmission as well.
>> And then the last one, and the one you
could really see on the streets of Bell
and Brazil, is electric vehicles. I
can't tell you how many of the Ubers I
took trying to get through the traffic
clogged streets of this city were BYDs.
BYDs.
>> BYD.
>> What does that mean?
>> Build your dreams. These amazing Chinese
electric vehicles which are incredibly
cheap, way more advanced than the EVs we
can buy here in the United States and
are proliferating around the globe.
>> I understand what you're saying that
China is filling this vacuum in the
environmental space that the US has
left, but a lot of the technology that
you're talking about, it's not like we
don't have that in the United States.
We're not interested in that in the
United States. So what is the gap I
guess in reality between what the US is
able to do and what China has been able
to manufacture and export?
The list of gobsmacking energy projects
that China's building at home goes on
forever. Take this new solar farm that
they've built on the Tibetan plateau.
You know, 10,000 ft high in the
mountains. There are solar panels that
cover an area larger than seven times
the size of Manhattan
>> and can power multiple cities. Or take,
you know, I mentioned the some power
lines that China is building in Brazil,
but it has built these ultra high
voltage transmission lines that stretch
2,000 miles across the country. And it
hasn't just built one or two or three or
four of them. It has more than 40 of
these lines, whereas I wrote a series of
stories earlier this year about the
challenge of building just one basic
transmission line in the United States.
And then there's China's network of
high-speed trains, which in recent years
has just come to crisscross the country.
And these are incredibly advanced trains
shuttling people around the country at
hundreds of miles an hour. Whereas, you
know, Amtrak just tried to update its
Northeast Corridor train and it left a
lot to be desired.
>> I want to understand the scale of the
interest in what China is offering to
sell. Like, okay, so they can make all
of these things and they can make a
multi,000mi
transmission line that you mentioned
that crisscrosses Brazil. What is the
appetite for that globally? And how does
that position China just on the world
stage?
>> Let me just put some of this in context.
Take batteries. The United States
exported about $3 billion worth of
batteries last year.
>> Okay?
>> China exported $65 billion worth of
batteries. The United States exported
about $69 million worth of solar panels.
>> China exported about $40 billion worth
of solar panels. When it comes to
electric cars, the United States
exported about 12 billion. Most of that
was Tesla. China exported 38 billion.
And that number is growing incredibly
fast. So this isn't a hypothetical.
China has already found markets for its
technologies around the world and it's
building factories and transmission
lines and all the rest of it in
countries in South America, Asia,
Africa, the Middle East and beyond. This
is happening right now.
>> One of the things we have not touched on
yet is China's interest in soft power.
Right. So I understand you've explained
that there's a market for what they are
making with the economic advantages that
they're trying to gain but beyond that
China obviously is trying to grow its
influence on the world stage. We've
talked about that on the show many many
times. So can you just talk about what
other advantages or influence doing
deals with some of these smaller
countries as you mentioned or maybe
bigger countries? What does that give to
them besides the economic advantages
we've talked about?
>> This has come up in so many of my
conversations this year as we've been
reporting on sort of the diverging
energy pathways through the United
States and China.
>> And because it's soft power, it can be
sometimes hard to say, oh, that's
exactly how it showed up,
>> right? It's a tangible benefit.
>> It's out there,
>> right?
>> But setting a specific example aside, I
think if you just understand that say a
country in central Africa that might be
buying more Chinese technology, inviting
Chinese companies to come help it build
out its energy grid, importing Chinese
electrical vehicles. When you think
about which countries are going to have
influence on a nation like that,
especially as the United States has
pulled back its aid budget with the
dismantling of something like USAD,
>> it's easy to understand why this kind of
big energy export is going to give China
a major seat at the table at a lot of
developing economies, especially at a
moment when the United States is pulling
back from the world stage in this way.
>> Right? teach a man to fish but also
control all of his fishing poles
essentially.
>> That's one way to say it.
>> So in a way that speaks to China's
motivation, right? Because they're
developing all of this clean energy
technology and it's not just about
moving away from fossil fuels to save
the climate. It is also very much rooted
in what is geopolitically and
economically beneficial for China.
>> That's right. I mean, China is
positioning itself as a climate leader
at this moment, but that's not where
this all came from. The story of China's
embrace of clean technologies, actually
began in roughly like 2003 or so when a
man named WaBo, who was China's premere,
took a look around and understood that
China was incredibly reliant on imported
oil from the Middle East. And that made
him very uncomfortable. It did not give
China energy independence, which is a
buzz word we hear a lot. And it made him
realize that it would be beneficial as
China really looked to become this
economic superpower for them to control
their own story when it came to energy.
And so at the time, China understood
that because it didn't have giant
reserves of oil and gas of its own that
were easily accessible,
>> the way to accomplish this was going to
be with green power, probably with wind
and solar. And so they've been playing
this long game for 20 years now. They've
been investing in these technologies,
and it has really all started to bear
fruit in the last couple years because
the cost of these technologies has
plummeted. They finally achieved sort of
economies of scale and now solar power,
Chinese solar panels are literally the
cheapest form of energy we have ever had
on Earth.
>> Wow. Something you mentioned earlier I
think really kind of hit the nail on the
head here. this idea that the US is
banking on fossil fuels and in a way
banking on the past that the past is the
future but China is banking on the
future being the future it sounds like
because they're investing in new
technologies renewable energy things
that have not yet been developed by the
rest of the world and in a way I wonder
whether this means that the US is
seeding the future in some way to China
if the US's bet is wrong
>> a lot of people that we've talked to say
that and that comes from other diplomats
that comes from people at NOS's that
comes from people in the private sector.
But one thing that really surprised me
at COP and BM is that some people were
okay with that. When I spoke with people
and asked them what did it mean that the
United States wasn't there, what it
meant that the Trump administration had
sent zero people to represent the United
States in this massive international
forum. A lot of people said that they
were relieved because the United States
under the Trump administration is often
meddling with agreements like this.
They're often being obstructionist. Mhm.
>> And so what you heard was that in the
absence of the distraction of the United
States at this global communion,
>> the rest of the world, which is largely
unified in its understanding that
climate change is a real threat and that
we need to be investing heavily in clean
technologies to address it. They were
free to sort of go about their work
without being distracted by the US. And
that's [snorts]
the kind of environment that left such a
huge opening for China.
And so that was a really surprising
narrative that I encountered over the
last week or so when I was there. But
that is not [music] of course how the
Trump administration sees it.
>> David, thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
When we come back, my colleague Brad
Plumer explains what the United States
is betting big on when it comes to
domestic energy policy. [music]
Brad, before the break, David made it
clear that the US attitude toward
renewable energy is very different from
China's. So much so that we aren't even
sending anybody to COP this year. And
instead what we are essentially doing is
seeding the space to China at a moment
when we are also in what feels like this
larger battle with China for global
dominance in a whole bunch of different
industries and spheres and geopolitical
arenas. So it feels a little bit
counterintuitive that we'd therefore be
seeding the space. And I just want to
start off with you explaining to us what
is the current energy policy of the
United States. So, the Trump
administration has been doing a lot to
try to expand fossil fuel production as
much as they can, expand oil and gas
production. So, that means opening up
new lands for drilling. It means rolling
back Biden era regulations on air
pollution, on restrictions on production
and mining and drilling. At the same
time, they have also been cancelling
funding for a number of climate programs
and particularly cancelling funding for
a lot of wind and solar projects.
>> Uh so the broader view is expanding oil
and gas and fossil fuel production as
much as they can while limiting
renewable energy.
>> Okay. So it sounds like he's going allin
on oil and gas. And one of the ways that
he's doing that is basically by rolling
back a lot of what Biden did with the
Inflation Reduction Act. That's right.
There are a number of Biden
administration policies. They were
funding a lot of alternatives to fossil
fuels like wind and solar power. A lot
of that has been rolled back. They were
also doing a number of regulations
intended to encourage people to buy
electric vehicles or you know encourage
electric utilities to build fewer gas
fired power plants and the Trump
administration has been rolling those
back as well.
>> Okay. I want to talk about natural gas
to start off with. Can you just tell us
a little bit about what the state of
natural gas is like? If we are going
allin, what does that mean exactly?
>> So the United States has been producing
a lot more oil and gas over the last two
decades and it has really transformed
the country's energy landscape. We have
gone from a huge oil importer to a major
oil exporter. We have a lot of natural
gas that has now become the biggest
source of energy in the country and it
is very inexpensive which has helped
keep energy prices down. It provides
about 40% of our electricity. We use it
for home heating. We use it for a lot of
industrial purposes. So, it's been a
real asset in a lot of ways to the
United States. And so, you know, what
the Trump administration wants to do is
to continue expanding production as much
as they can and selling as much oil and
gas as they can abroad. Yeah. So, in
other words, we already have this
enormous resource and the thinking is
that we should double down on all the
money we've already invested in building
infrastructure around tapping it. Is
that right?
>> That's right. And a big part of that is
that the administration genuinely does
not see climate change as a problem
worth thinking about at all. So, if you
do not think climate change is worth
worrying about, then you may as well try
to drill and sell as much oil and gas as
you possibly can. Brad, you mentioned
that the United States is selling
natural gas to other countries, and I
wonder what the game plan is here
because obviously oil and gas is a
finite resource. China and other
countries are investing in renewable
energy and renewable technology. So,
what is the time horizon for this? How
long can the United States continue to
bank on just selling cheap gas overseas?
I mean, by all estimates, the US still
has an enormous quantity of oil and gas
that they can sell abroad. And in many
ways, one of the biggest threats to the
oil and gas market is if other countries
start adopting alternatives to it.
Whether that's, you know, buying more
electric cars that don't rely on
gasoline to run or building more wind
and solar power that starts to cut into
uh the market share for fossil fuels.
So, you know, in some ways that explains
why the administration has been
pressuring other countries to try to
ease up on a lot of climate change and
clean energy related policies.
>> Right. It's not out of the realm of
possibility that a lot of places are
going to be switching to electric
vehicles and renewable energy because
that is literally happening as we speak.
>> That's right. I do want to ask though,
is part of the reason why the Trump
administration is so all in on fossil
fuels because as an industry oil and gas
pours money into US elections like that
is an extremely powerful lobbying group.
>> So they have been a big supporter of
President Trump, but he has also been a
big supporter of the fossil fuel
industry for a long time. In his first
term, he was a little more focused on
coal. this time around he's a lot more
focused on oil and gas. But it's also
combined with the fact that he for a
long time has uh completely dismissed
any concern about climate change. He's
called a hoax. He's called it a scam.
And he has also had a long-standing
animosity toward wind and solar power.
[music]
>> An economy based on wind. I never
understood wind and I know windmills
very much.
>> And especially wind. They litter our
country. They're littered all over our
country like like dropping [music]
paper, like dropping garbage.
>> You know, he's talked about how
windmills are ugly.
>> They're not strong enough to fire up the
plants that you need to make your
country great.
>> He's talked about how they don't work
when the wind dies down.
>> The wind doesn't blow. Those big
windmills are so pathetic [music] and so
bad. The windmills are driving the
whales crazy. Obviously, [music]
>> he has been saying this uh for more than
a decade
>> to see. I mean, today I'm playing the
best course I think in the world,
Turnberry. Even though I own it, it's
probably the best course in the world,
right?
>> Ever since he was opposing uh wind
turbines that were going to go up in
view of one of his golf courses in
Scotland.
>> And [music] I look over the horizon and
I see nine windmills like right at the
end of the 18. I said, "Isn't that a
shame? What a shame.
He has been very consistent about this
for a long time.
>> Okay. So, it sounds like a part of this
energy policy kind of rests on the
president's personal disdain. But I got
to ask, if we did invest as a country in
windmills and solar panels and other
types of renewable energies that are on
the table, wouldn't that mean more
manufacturing jobs? like at least
spiritually that seems to be quite in
line with what a lot of the
administration has talked about in the
second term.
>> So this was the Biden administration's
big strategy. They wanted to invest
hundreds of billions of dollars in clean
energy technologies whether it's solar
farms, wind farms, factories that make
solar panels, factories that make
batteries and electric cars.
>> And it really had started to create a
pretty significant domestic
manufacturing boom. You had hundreds of
projects around the country, you know,
more than half a trillion dollars in
announced investments, and it was really
uh leading the way for a a uptick in
manufacturing. A lot of those
investments were happening in
Republicancontrolled states, and they
were pretty popular with a number of
Republican politicians, but Trump was
really against it. He called it the
Green New Scam. He really wanted to undo
Biden's legacy, and he pushed to repeal
a lot of those policies. and we are now
seeing billions of dollars worth of
factories getting cancelled uh and
disappearing.
>> Is it possible though that one part of
this rationale for cancelling a lot of
these renewable energy projects or
incentives is that there's this idea
that the federal government maybe
doesn't need to incentivize it anymore
like these industries are well on their
way.
>> They have talked about that. At the same
time, the administration has also moved
to actively block wind and solar
projects, particularly offshore wind
projects in federal waters. And they
have also tried to uh slow the growth of
wind and solar projects on federal land.
So yes, they did say, you know, at
various points that uh wind and solar
power can stand at their own, but
they've also taken pretty significant
steps to try to slow the expansion of
these technologies.
>> So what you're saying is basically that
since they're cancelling projects that
are already underway, it suggests that
they just don't want these projects to
proliferate.
>> That's right. And there's also this
other priority happening which is
they're really focused on winning the AI
race against China and that is a big
part of their energy strategy.
>> Explain that a little bit more. What
does AI have to do with the energy
strategy of the US?
>> So the administration sees AI as the
most important industry of the future.
They are currently in a race with China
and trying to dominate this industry.
But that also connects to energy. Right
now tech companies are trying to build
hundreds of billions of dollars worth of
data centers for AI. but they need
enormous amounts of electricity to try
to power that. Now, the administration's
view is that you can really only get
there with things like natural gas, with
things like nuclear power that run
around the clock and particularly
natural gas uh can be relatively low
cost. You know, in a lot of ways, they
talk about how they don't believe that
wind and solar power, which do not run
all the time, can actually power these
daires and be useful for the AI race.
Now, there are a lot of tech companies
that disagree with that, but that is
something they have said a lot.
>> But couldn't theoretically the United
States do both? Like, couldn't we double
down on the existing infrastructure in
order to power our AI arms race, but
also recognize that green energy is
probably a big part of the future and
try to invest in that as well. So there
are certainly a lot of people and a lot
of tech companies that think you don't
actually have to choose that trying to
expand the use of gas alongside the use
of renewable energy would be the best
strategy moving forward. That if we want
as much energy as possible, if we want
as much electricity as possible and we
want to keep it as cheap as possible, we
should really be investing in
everything. But that is really not the
Trump administration's view. They are
quite hostile to renewable energy,
particularly wind and solar power, and
just do not agree with the view that we
should have an all of the- above energy
strategy. And you know, Chris Wright,
the energy secretary, has even said that
the old Republican position on energy
was that we should have an all of the-
above energy policy. We should promote
all energy sources and try to get as
much of it as possible. And he has said,
I am not for that. I am not in favor of
wind and solar power. He sees them as
unreliable and not worth supporting.
>> Are we to infer then that basically the
administration has decided that the
threat of losing the renewables arms
race is just not as big of a deal as
losing the AI arms race, right? that
basically whatever costs we're going to
pay in terms of climate change or
seeding the manufacturing of solar
panels to China for instance that that
is worth stomaching in order to win that
AI arms race.
>> It certainly seems that way and you see
China has explicitly talked about how
they think things like solar power, wind
power, electric vehicles are the
industries of the future and they have
really positioned themselves to dominate
in those industries. And I've asked
Trump administration officials before,
are you worried about losing the race
for those industries which are very fast
growing, which are, you know, at this
point the world is spending something
like $2 trillion a year on clean energy
technologies and they have basically
said no, we think clean energy is still
a very minor part of the total global
energy system and we are focused on
winning this AI race which is so much
more important than anything else. So
yes, that does seem to be their view. We
already talked a little bit about how
the ground that we are seeding to China
seems antithetical to the idea of
bringing manufacturing back to the
United States which has been a stated
policy of the current Trump
administration. It also feels like we
are seeding a lot of future ground. The
future of AI seems like it could be a
future where a lot of people who have
certain jobs now do not have those jobs
in the future. And so I wonder if we are
also kind of compromising future
manufacturing jobs in a way that feels a
bit reminiscent of what we saw happen
after NAFTA, right? Like it it feels
like we have seen this movie before and
I wonder whether we are repeating some
of the same steps that are going to lead
to the same kinds of job losses that
we've already seen in this country.
>> [snorts]
>> So I have talked to a number of people
who have had that concern that you know
the US invented technologies like the
solar panel and the lithium ion battery
and we invented those things but China
got good at scaling them up at
manufacturing them and they now dominate
those industries. You know, there's a
real concern that with the auto
industry, if we don't embrace electric
vehicles, we will seed the entire global
market to China because it seems like a
lot of countries are headed that way.
So, there are real risks here to seeding
some of these industries to a a major
competitor.
>> But the next president, of course, could
reverse course, right, and decide that
renewable energy is something that the
United States needs to prioritize and
invest in. But I guess the question is
by the time that happens will the US be
so far behind China that it cannot even
compete?
>> Yeah. So I think it you know if a new
president came in and was not trying to
restrict wind and solar power you would
still see a lot of wind farms and solar
farms being built. I mean even now
there's enormous demand for those
technologies even with a lot of the
Trump administration restrictions. The
problem is it would be very difficult to
reestablish US domestic manufacturing
because China is so far ahead at this
point and they're so good at making
these technologies that I think it would
be extremely difficult for the US to get
back into the game. [music]
>> So essentially the Trump administration
is setting us on a course that is hard
to reverse.
>> That's correct,
>> Brad. Thank you so much. [music]
>> Thank you.
[music]
We'll be right back.
[music] Here's what else you need to
know today.
The UN Security Council on Monday
approved President Trump's peace plan
for Gaza, [music]
bringing the administration one step
closer to fulfilling its vision for how
to rebuild the war ravaged Gaza Strip.
[music]
The council's vote was also a major
diplomatic victory for the United
States, which has been increasingly
isolated at the UN over its support for
[music] Israel.
The resolution calls for an
international stabilization force to
enter, demilitarize, and govern the
enclave where tens [music] of thousands
of Palestinians, including both
combatants and civilians, have been
killed since the war began.
[music]
And a federal magistrate judge said the
criminal case against James Comey, the
former [music] FBI director, could be in
trouble because of quote government
misconduct.
The judge accused Lindseay Halligan, the
inexperienced [music]
prosecutor picked by President Trump to
oversee the case, of making at least two
quote fundamental and highly prejuditial
misstatements of the law when she spoke
in front of the grand jury in [music]
September.
The judge also pointed out that grand
jury materials he ordered Halagan to
produce for his review appear to be
incomplete [music] and quote likely do
not reflect the full proceedings.
Today's [music] episode was produced by
Michael Simon Johnson and Eric Cupkkey
with help from Nina Feldman [music] and
Caitlyn O'Keeffe. It was edited by Chris
Hackel and Paige Cowat. Contains music
by Will Reed, Marian Lozano, and Dan
[music] Powell and was engineered by
Alyssa Moxley.
[music]
That's it for the Daily. I'm Rachel
Abrams. See you tomorrow. [music]